1) Which of the following is not a Java features?	(c)
a.Dynamic
b.Architecture Neutral
c.use of pointers
d.dynamic binding between objects

2)_____ is used to find and fix bugs in the Java programs.	(B)

a.JVM
b.JRE
c.JDK
d.JDB

3) What is the return type of the hashCode() method in the Object class?	(b)

a.Object
b.int
c.long
d.void

4) In which process, a local variable has the same name as one of the instance variables?	(b)

a.Serialization
b.Variable Shadowing
c.Abstraction
d.Multi-threading

5)Which of the following is true about the anonymous inner class?	(d)
a.It has only methods
b.Objects can't be created
c.It has a fixed class name
d.It has no class name

6) An interface with no fields or methods is known as a ______.	(b)

a.Runnable Interface
b.Marker Interface
c.Abstract Interface
d.CharSequence Interface

7)Which of these classes are the direct subclasses of the Throwable class?	(c)

a.RuntimeException and Error class
b.Exception and VirtualMachineError class
c.Error and Exception class
d.IOException and VirtualMachineError class

8) In which memory a String is stored, when we create a string using new operator?	(c)
a.Stack
b.String memory
c.Heap memory
d.Random storage space

9)Which keyword is used for accessing the features of a package?	(b)
a.package
b.import
c.extends
d.export

10)Given,
ArrayList list = new ArrayList();  
What is the initial quantity of the ArrayList list?	(b)
a.5
b.10
c.0
d.100
	
11)How many threads can be executed at a time?	(b)
a.Only one thread
b.Multiple threads
c.Only main (main() method) thread
d.Two threads

12)What is the use of final keyword in Java?	(d)
a.When a class is made final, a sublcass of it can not be created.
b.When a method is final, it can not be overridden
c.When a variable is final, it can be assigned value only once.
d.All of the above

18)Which of the following is not an operator in Java?	(b)
a.instanceof
b.sizeof
c.new
d.>>>=

19)In Java, can we make functions inline like C++?	(b)
a.Yes
b.No

20)Java uses threads to enable the entire environment to be ______.	(d)
a.Symmetric
b.Asymmetric
c.synchronous
d.Asynchronous

21)In Java, when we implement an interface method, it must be declared as:	(c)
a.private
b.protected
c.public
d.default

22)Which of the following is/are advantages of packages?	(d)
a.Packages avoid name clashes
b.Classes, even though they are visible outside their package, can have fields visible to packages only
c.We can have hidden classes that are used by the packages, but not visible outside.
d.All the above

23)Which one of the following is correct?	(d)
a.Java applets can not be written in any programming language
b.An applet is not a small program
c.An applet can be run on its own
d.Applets are embedded in another applications

24)Which of these is a super class of all errors and exceptions in the Java language?	(b)
a.RunTimeExceptions
b.Throwable
c.Catchable
d.None of the above

25)The built-in base class in Java, which is used to handle all exceptions is	(d)
A.Raise
B.Exception
C.Error
d.Throwable

26)Which of the following is FALSE about arrays on Java	(b)
A.A java array is always an object
B.Length of array can be changed after creation of array
C.Arrays in Java are always allocated on heap

27)Which of the following is FALSE about abstract classes in Java	(d)
A.If we derive an abstract class and do not implement all the abstract methods, then the derived class should also be marked as abstract using 'abstract' keyword
B.Abstract classes can have constructors
C.A class can be made abstract without any abstract method
D.A class can inherit from multiple abstract classes

28)Type IV JDBC driver is a driver	(c)
A.which is written in C++
B.which requires an intermediate layer
C.which communicates through Java sockets
D.which translates JDBC function calls into API not native to DBMS

29)Which of the following is used to make an Abstract class?	(A)
A.Making atleast one member function as pure virtual function
B.Making atleast one member function as virtual function
C.Declaring as Abstract class using virtual keyword
D.Declaring as Abstract class using static keyword

30)We can make a class abstract by	(c)
A.Declaring it abstract using the virtual keyword
B.Making at least one member function as virtual function
C.Making at least one member function as pure virtual function
D.Making all member function const

31)What is the use of final keyword in Java?	(D)
A.When a class is made final, a sublcass of it can not be created.
B.When a method is final, it can not be overridden.
C.When a variable is final, it can be assigned value only once.
D.All of the above

32)Which of the following is FALSE about arrays on Java	(B)
A.A java array is always an object
B.Length of array can be changed after creation of array
C.Arrays in Java are always allocated on heap

33)Which of these is a super class of all errors and exceptions in the Java language?	(B)
A.RunTimeExceptions
B.Throwable
C.Catchable
D.None of the above

34)The built-in base class in Java, which is used to handle all exceptions is	(D)
A.Raise
B.Exception
C.Error
D.Throwable

35)We can make a class abstract by	(c)
A.Declaring it abstract using the virtual keyword
B.Making at least one member function as virtual function
c.Making at least one member function as pure virtual function
D.Making all member function const

36)What is the extension of java code files?	(d)
a) .js
b) .txt
c) .class
d) .java

37)Which environment variable is used to set the java path?	(d)
a) MAVEN_Path
b) JavaPATH
c) JAVA
d) JAVA_HOME

38) Which of the following is not an OOPS concept in Java?	(c)
a) Polymorphism
b) Inheritance
c) Compilation
d) Encapsulation

39) What will be the error in the following Java code?	(d)

    byte b = 50;
    b = b * 50;
a) b cannot contain value 50
b) b cannot contain value 100, limited by its range
c) No error in this code
d) * operator has converted b * 50 into int, which can not be converted to byte without casting

40)Which of the following is a type of polymorphism in Java Programming?	(b)
a) Multiple polymorphism
b) Compile time polymorphism
c) Multilevel polymorphism
d) Execution time polymorphism

41) Which exception is thrown when java is out of memory?	(b)
a) MemoryError
b) OutOfMemoryError
c) MemoryOutOfBoundsException
d) MemoryFullException

42)Which of the following is a superclass of every class in Java?	(c)
a) ArrayList
b) Abstract class
c) Object class
d) String

43) Which of these packages contains the exception Stack Overflow in Java?	(c)
a) java.io
b) java.system
c) java.lang
d) java.util

44) Which of these keywords are used for the block to be examined for exceptions?	(d)
a) check
b) throw
c) catch
d) try

45) Which of this method is used to avoid polling in Java?	(d)
a) wait()
b) notify()
c) notifyAll()
d) all of the mentioned

46)Which constructs an anonymous inner class instance?		(D)
A.Runnable r = new Runnable() { };
B.Runnable r = new Runnable(public void run() { });
C.Runnable r = new Runnable { public void run(){}};
D.System.out.println(new Runnable() {public void run() { }});

47)Which is true about a method-local inner class?		(B)
A.It must be marked final.
B.It can be marked abstract.
C.It can be marked public.
D.It can be marked static.

48)You want subclasses in any package to have access to members of a superclass. Which is the most restrictive access that accomplishes this objective?	  (C
A.public
B.private
C.protected
D.transient

49)public class Test { }
What is the prototype of the default constructor?	(C)
A.Test( )
B.Test(void)
C.public Test( )
D.public Test(void)

50)You want a class to have access to members of another class in the same package. Which is the most restrictive access that accomplishes this objective?	(D)
A.public
B.private
C.protected
D.default access